**Lab 6 - Enrolling devices into Microsoft Intune**

**Summary**

In this lab, you will join a Windows client to Entra ID and verify that
the device has automatically enrolled into Microsoft Intune.

**Prerequisites**

To following lab(s) must be completed before this lab:

- Lab \#1-Managing Identities in Microsoft Entra ID

- Lab \#2-Synchronizing Identities by using Microsoft Entra Connect

- Lab \#5-Manage Device Enrollment into Microsoft Intune

Note: You may also need a mobile phone that can receive text messages
used to secure Windows Hello sign in authentication to Entra ID.

**Scenario**

You have assigned Cindy White appropriate licenses and will now test the
process of joining a Windows device to Entra ID and have it
automatically enroll in Microsoft Intune.

**Task 1: Automatically enroll a Windows device to Microsoft Intune**

1.  Switch
    to [*SEA-WS1*](https://labclient.labondemand.com/Instructions/e7cc4ae1-e3d9-4c55-accc-696f537e1e17?rc=10) and
    sign in as **Admin** with the password of !!**Pa55w.rd**!!

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically generated with
medium confidence](./media/image1.png)

2.  On the taskbar, select **Start** and then select **Settings**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image2.png)

3.  In the **Settings** window, select **Accounts**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image3.png)

4.  On the Accounts page, select **Access work or school**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image4.png)

5.  In the **Access work or school** page, select **Connect**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image5.png)

6.  In the **Microsoft account** window, select **Join this device to
    Microsoft Entra ID**.

![](./media/image6.png)

7.  On the **Sign in** page,
    type !\![**Cindy@M365x51282399.onmicrosoft.com**](mailto:Cindy@M365x51282399.onmicrosoft.com)!!
     and then select **Next**.

![](./media/image7.png)

8.  On the **Enter password** page, enter the password:
    !\![**P@55w.rd1234**](mailto:!!P@55w.rd1234)!! and then
    select **Sign in**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image8.png)

9.  **Make sure this is your organization** dialog box appear, then
    select **Join**.

![](./media/image9.png)

10. On the **You're all set!** page, read the information and then
    select **Done**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image10.png)

11. In the **Access work or school** section, verify that **Connected to
    Contoso's Azure AD** displays.

12. Select **Connected to Contoso's Azure AD** and then select **Info**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image11.png)

13. Take note of the information regarding the areas managed by Contoso,
    scroll down, and then select **Sync**. This will force a Device sync
    with Intune.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image12.png)

14. Close the **Settings** window.

**Task 2: Validate device enrollment into Microsoft Entra And Intune**

1.  On the **SEA-WS1** taskbar, select **Start**,
    type !!**certlm.msc**!! press **Enter**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image13.png)

2.  On User Account Control dialog box, select **Yes** button.

![](./media/image14.png)

3.  In the **Certificates** console, in the navigation pane,
    expand **Personal** and select the **Certificate** node. Verify that
    the following certificates are listed in the details pane:

- Microsoft Intune MDM Device CA

- MS-Organization-Access

- MS-Organization-P2P-Access \[2024\]

This indicates that the device is enrolled in Microsoft Entra and
Intune.

![](./media/image15.png)

4.  Close the Certificates window.

5.  Right-click on **Start** button and then select **Windows Terminal
    (Admin)**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image16.png)

6.  On **User Account Control** dialog box, click on the **Yes** button.

![A screenshot of a computer error Description automatically
generated](./media/image17.png)

7.  In the PowerShell console, type the following and press **Enter**:

!!**dsregcmd /status**!!

8.  In the output, under **Device State**, verify that **AzureAdJoined :
    YES** is displayed. This indicates that the device is Azure AD
    joined.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image18.png)

9.  In the output under **Tenant Details**, verify that the following
    three entries exist:

- mdmUrl:https://enrollment.manage.microsoft.com/enrollmentserver/discovery.svc

- mdmTouUrl:https://portal.manage.microsoft.com/TermsofUse.aspxmdm

- ComplianceUrl:https://portal.manage.microsoft.com/?portalAction=Compliance

![](./media/image19.png)

*Note: These entries indicate that the device is enrolled in Intune.*

**Task 3: Sign in as Microsoft Entra ID user**

1.  Sign out of **SEA-WS1** as you are logged with the local admin
    account.

2.  On the Sign in screen select Other user and sign in
    as !!**Cindy@M365xXXXXXXX.onmicrosoft.com**!!  with the password:
     !\![**P@55w.rd1234**](mailto:P@55w.rd1234)!!

![](./media/image20.png)

3.  Wait for the profile to be created

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image21.png)

**Note** – If you are prompted for **Windows Hello**, then complete the
sign in process accordingly and on the **Set up a PIN** page, in
the **New PIN** and **Confirm PIN** boxes, type !!**102938**!!  and then
select **OK**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image22.png)

4.  Sign out of **SEA-WS1**.

**Task 4: Verifying device enrollment in the Microsoft Intune console**

1.  Switch
    to *[SEA-SVR1](https://labclient.labondemand.com/Instructions/e7cc4ae1-e3d9-4c55-accc-696f537e1e17?rc=10)*
    and login using the provided credentials.

2.  In Microsoft Edge browser, type !!**https://intune.microsoft.com**!!
    in the address bar, and then press **Enter**. Sign in with your
    Office 365 Tenant administrator account.

3.  In the navigation pane, select **Devices**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image23.png)

4.  On the **Devices | Overview** page, navigate and click on
    **Windows**.

![](./media/image24.png)

5.  Navigate and click on **Windows devices**. Verify
    that **SEA-WS1** is listed.

Note that for SEA-WS1, the **Managed by** column displays **Intune** and
the **Ownership** column displays **Corporate**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image25.png)

**Note**: This view lists devices that are enrolled to Intune. Remember
that you configured automatic enrollment between Microsoft Entra and
Microsoft Intune, and because of that, any device that is joined or
registered to Microsoft Entra is automatically enrolled to Microsoft
Intune. Any devices joined prior to setting up enrollment are only
joined or registered to Entra, but not enrolled in Intune.

6.  Open a new tab and navigate to **Microsoft Entra admin center**
    !!**https://entra.microsoft.com**!!. Click on **Devices** and then
    select **All devices**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image26.png)

7.  Take note of **SEA-WS1**. Notice that the **Join Type** column
    displays Microsoft Entra joined and the **MDM** column displays
    Microsoft Intune.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image27.png)

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have successfully
joined a Windows client to Microsoft Entra ID and verified that the
device has automatically enrolled into Microsoft Intune.
